<div id=toc></div>

# Table of Contents

- [cs.AR](#cs.AR) [Total: 1]


<div id='cs.AR'></div>

# cs.AR [[Back]](#toc)

### [1] [hdl2v: A Code Translation Dataset for Enhanced LLM Verilog Generation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.04544)
*Charles Hong,Brendan Roberts,Huijae An,Alex Um,Advay Ratan,Yakun Sophia Shao*

Main category: cs.AR

TL;DR: The paper introduces hdl2v, a dataset translating VHDL, Chisel, and PyMTL3 to Verilog to address the scarcity of human-written Verilog data. It shows significant improvements in LLM Verilog generation performance.


<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
Motivation: The lack of publicly available Verilog code compared to software languages like Python motivates the creation of hdl2v to enhance LLM performance in hardware code generation.

Method: hdl2v translates or compiles VHDL, Chisel, and PyMTL3 to Verilog, creating a dataset to train LLMs. The impact is tested on a 32B-parameter model and a data augmentation-based approach.

Result: hdl2v improves the 32B-parameter model's performance by up to 23% (pass@10) and boosts the data augmentation approach by 63%.

Conclusion: hdl2v effectively addresses the Verilog data scarcity, enhancing LLM performance. Future work can expand on dataset characteristics for further improvements.

Abstract: Large language models (LLMs) are playing an increasingly large role in
domains such as code generation, including hardware code generation, where
Verilog is the key language. However, the amount of publicly available Verilog
code pales in comparison to the amount of code available for software languages
like Python. In this work, we present hdl2v ("HDL-to-Verilog"), a dataset which
seeks to increase the amount of available human-written Verilog data by
translating or compiling three other hardware description languages - VHDL,
Chisel, and PyMTL3 - to Verilog. Furthermore, we demonstrate the value of hdl2v
in enhancing LLM Verilog generation by improving performance of a 32
billion-parameter open-weight model by up to 23% (pass@10) in VerilogEvalV2,
without utilizing any data augmentation or knowledge distillation from larger
models. We also show hdl2v's ability to boost the performance of a data
augmentation-based fine-tuning approach by 63%. Finally, we characterize and
analyze our dataset to better understand which characteristics of
HDL-to-Verilog datasets can be expanded upon in future work for even better
performance.

</details>
